in recent weeks there has been an
alarmingly small number of official
voices calling for a ceasefire in Gaza
one exception has been Francesca Alban
an Italian trained in international law
she is the United Nations special raur
on the occupied Palestinian territories
and she's been vocal in one interview
after another on the need for
journalists to remember the context in
this story and what international law
says about the rights and
responsibilities of the occupier and the
occupied long before October 7th Alban
was the target of smear campaigns and
calls for her dismissal from the UN not
one for being silenced she has gone in
the other direction chastising the UN
for its inaction and Alban has implored
the media to do better telling
journalists they have a lot of homework
to do the necessity of reclaiming a more
Humane narrative is categorically
imperative both to protect Francesca
Alban joins us now miss Alban you've
been on a media blitz ever since October
7th you are no stranger to the
sensitivities around this story but tell
us about some of your interactions with
reporters and editors since that day the
assumptions that journalists have on
this story what's it been like for
you uh hi Richard uh it's uneven because
I have to say that there are there have
been a few journalists who have really
tried to do um
good job good coverage asking me sort of
neutral questions to appreciate the
facts but mostly I've had um a difficult
experience with uh mainstream media in
the
west because I found I found myself in
the uncomfortable position of being
challenged on how I would call things or
how I would report on things no it's not
a trop it's really real so it seems not
to understand what I'm saying
there is an aparti regime no I'm serious
there is an apartheid regime it's
domination this is not a Trope this is
international law I mean it was not my
intention to to challenge journalists
but it seems that they really wanted to
to to to challenge my way of looking at
things which I found disturbing because
again excuse me but I'm I'm here to
report on on things that I've analyzed
verified triangulated
and yeah I found it a bit surprising
that relates to something that you've
said about today's political landscape
you say it's marked by historical
Amnesia traditional media plays a
critical role in that and that many
people are living in an alternative
reality what do you mean exactly by that
yes yes Richard because this is not just
a conflict and calling calling it just a
conflict is a is a Mis Noma because this
is an occupation that has been ongoing
for 56 years so very limited uh
consideration for that but also very
limited consideration for the enduring
trauma that also the Palestinians have
in themselves because um while there is
recognition for the the the tragedy that
the Jewish people have lived through and
through across centuries that culminated
in the horror of the Holocaust there is
very little recognition of what the
Palestinians hasn't had endured as a
people since
1947 since the and and through the
creation of the state of Israel they
were never allowed to come to a closure
and again this is not about Hamas this
is really the Palestinian as a people as
they try to resist a violent occupation
in the occupied pal Palestinian
territory there is no Hamas military
presence in in the West Bank and East
Jerusalem and still over 200 people have
been killed by soldiers and armed
settlers do you see any connection to it
in uh in mainstream media I don't think
that there is a fair objective and
impartial representation of the
relationship between the Israelis and
the Palestinians and the Palestinians
are the ones who are blamed and smeared
including when they try to protest in
Western Europe or to be in solidarity
with with the Palestinians in the
occupied Palestinian territory
Palestinians have heard the calls as we
have from Israeli officials and voices
in the Israeli media for what amounts to
ethnic cleansing of Gaza as a lawyer are
you surprised by the evidence that they
are willingly providing of what appears
to be the intent to commit what are in
fact war crimes there seems to be this
sense of impunity over their words it's
surprising yes because the Israelis have
never been so explicit in admitting
responsibility for specific incidents
one of the things that were absolutely
shocking was the the bombing of the
jabalia refugee camp because the Israeli
Army knew that there were about 400
civilians Palestinian civilians
including hostages and nonetheless the
camp was bombed heavily and hundreds of
Palestinians were killed hundreds were
injured and the number of hostages was
reportedly killed in that case so yeah
they've been quite outspoken about their
intention including calling for the
Erasure of Gaza the flattening
OFA and at the same time what I found
more
surprising is the kind of denial and
this is the what I call the alternative
reality that people live in in the west
there are almost 15,000 who have been
reportedly killed and and and in
politicians in the west are still
debating whether a a permanent ceas fire
should take place or not so yeah this I
find very surprising we have seen before
what happens to people when this this
Fury becomes becomes popular and this
genocidal call that we have heard from
politicians and and military leaders in
Israel is also Amplified in various
groups in the Israeli
Society so in the face of this
madness as someone who has
seen genocidal horror happening in other
parts of the world I say it's clear that
this has this has is taking the Israeli
Society to a very dark place and this is
why I say in the interest of the
palestin both Palestinians and the
Israelis This Must Be Stopped you've
faced a lot of
criticism um for some of the things that
you've said and you faced some of that
criticism prior to October 7th some
cases you've been defamed pressure
groups have been on your case to resign
what kind of things are they saying
about you are they succeeding Miss Alban
in making your job more difficult look
these groups and they
I mean they're all connected one way or
another because they say exactly the
same things that are repeated exactly in
the same way sometime sometimes in the
same sequence over and over and the
accusations against me are that I'm an
anti-mite that I am Pro Hamas and I
support terrorism Franchesca Alban is
someone who pretends to be neutral uh
neither her position nor her own
background have anything to do with
impartiality I mean these are false
allegation that gives enough to me to
take Jud legal action and it has also
happened to my predecessors is it
succeeding I don't think so because
eventually more and more people keep on
asking me to to speak and to speak out
wherever I go uh speaking to governments
or speaking to the media off record
people know people tell me or let me
understand that the situation is better
known that it would seem in the public
debate but there is a lot of censorship
and self-censorship because people don't
want to be confronted with the
allegations I I have to face on a daily
basis which in my case don't distract me
I keep focused on what I have to do but
I think that it's necessary to tackle
this issue at the global level because
it's uh it's now also the weaponization
of anti-semitism and the level of smear
against anyone who utters a word of
criticism against Israel and everyone
who UTS a word of solidarity with the
Palestinians face such a huge and evil
um campaign I mean I also spoke with you
know human rights defenders in the
Pacific Islands where they say well you
we Face even arrest and detention if we
come out and protest in solidarity with
the Palestinian people people against
what's happening in the Gaza Strip so
there is a crashing of freedom of
assembly a crashing of freedom of
expression and of the right to protest
that it's absolutely unprecedented at
this Global level and of this scale
Franchesca albanesa un special raor for
the occupied Palestinian territories
you're up against it uh we understand
you're very busy we're very grateful for
the time that you've made for us today
thank thank you
Richard